CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, before:

Code of Conduct
===================

This code of conduct is derived from and very similar to the [Python Community Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/conduct/) and we believe in spirit essentially identical.

The Gradesta Open Source community hopes to be made up of members from around the globe with a diverse set of skills, personalities, and experiences. It is through these differences that our community hopes to experience great successes and continued growth. When you're working with members of the community, this Code of Conduct will help steer your interactions and keep the Gradesta Open Source community a positive, successful, and growing community.

Our Community
----------------

We hope that members of the Gradesta Open Source community will be _welcoming_, _considerate_, and _respectful_. Behaviours that reinforce these values contribute to a positive environment, and include:

 - Being open. Members of the community are open to collaboration, whether it's on proposals, patches, problems, or otherwise.
 - Focusing on what is best for the community. We're respectful of the processes set forth in the community, and we work within them.
 - Acknowledging time and effort. We're respectful of the volunteer efforts that permeate the Gradesta Open Source community. We're thoughtful when addressing the efforts of others, keeping in mind that often times the labor was completed simply for the good of the community.
 - Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences. We're receptive to constructive comments and criticism, as the experiences and skill sets of other members contribute to the whole of our efforts.
 - Showing empathy towards other community members. We're attentive in our communications, whether in person or online, and we're tactful when approaching differing views.
 - Being considerate. Members of the community are considerate of their peers -- other Gradesta users.
 - Being respectful. We're respectful of others, their positions, their skills, their commitments, and their efforts.
 - Gracefully accepting constructive criticism. When we disagree, we are courteous in raising our issues.
 - Using welcoming and inclusive language. We're accepting of all who wish to take part in our activities, fostering an environment where anyone can participate and everyone can make a difference.

Our Standards
----------------

The Gradesta Open Source community is dedicated to providing a positive experience as many people as possible, regardless of:
 - _Biology_: including age, genetics (race, sex), sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, health(including body size and mental health)
 - _Origin_: ethnicity, nationality, socio-economic status
 - And to the extent that they are not in conflict with the above: Identity and belief including religion or lack their of, political views, and gender identity.

Inappropriate Behavior
---------------------------

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

 - Harassment of any participants in any form
 - Deliberate intimidation, stalking, or following
 - Logging or taking screenshots of online activity for harassment purposes
 - Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic address, without explicit permission
 - Violent threats or language directed against another person
 - Incitement of violence or harassment towards any individual, including encouraging a person to commit suicide or to engage in self-harm
 - Creating additional online accounts in order to harass another person or circumvent a ban
 - Irrelevant sexual language and imagery in online communities or in any conference venue, including talks 
 - Insults, put downs, or jokes that are based upon stereotypes, that are exclusionary, or that hold others up for ridicule
 - Excessive swearing
 - Unwelcome sexual attention or advances: TODO make this more clear which advances are welcome and which are unwelcome for those who have trouble figuring that out on their own.
 - Unwelcome physical contact, including simulated physical contact (eg, textual descriptions like "hug" or "backrub") without consent or after a request to stop
 - Pattern of inappropriate social contact, such as requesting/assuming inappropriate levels of intimacy with others
 - Sustained disruption of online community discussions, in-person presentations, or other in-person events
 - Continued one-on-one communication after requests to cease
 - Other conduct that is inappropriate for a professional audience including people of many different backgrounds

Community members asked to stop any inappropriate behavior are expected to comply immediately.

Weapons Policy
-----------------

No weapons are allowed at Gradesta events. Weapons include but are not limited to explosives (including fireworks), guns, and large knives such as those used for hunting or display, as well as any other item used for the purpose of causing injury or harm to others. Anyone seen in possession of one of these items will be asked to leave immediately, and will only be allowed to return without the weapon.

Consequences
--------------

If a participant engages in behavior that violates this code of conduct, Gradesta staff (TODO: we're too small to do the right thing here) may take any action they deem appropriate, including warning the offender or expulsion from the community and community events with no refund of event tickets. The full list of consequences for inappropriate behavior is TODO TODO.

Thank you for helping make this a welcoming, friendly community for everyone.

Scope
------

Gradesta s.r.o. Events

This Code of Conduct applies to the following people at events hosted by Gradesta s.r.o., and events hosted by projects endorsed by Gradesta:

 -  staff
 -  speakers
 -  panelists
 -  tutorial or workshop leaders
 -  poster presenters
 -  people invited to meetings or summits
 -  exhibitors
 -  organizers
 -  volunteers
 -  all attendees

The Code of Conduct applies in official venue event spaces, including:

 -  exhibit hall or vendor tabling area
 -  panel and presentation rooms
 -  hackathon or sprint rooms
 -  tutorial or workshop rooms
 -  poster session rooms
 -  summit or meeting rooms
 -  staff areas
 -  con suite
 -  meal areas
 -  party suites
 -  walkways, hallways, elevators, and stairs that connect any of the above spaces

The Code of Conduct applies to interactions with official event accounts on social media spaces and phone applications, including:

  - comments made on official conference phone apps
  - comments made on event video hosting services
  - comments made on the official event hashtag or panel hashtags

Event organizers will enforce this code throughout the event. Each event is required to provide a Code of Conduct committee that receives, evaluates, and acts on incident reports. Each event is required to provide contact information for the committee to attendees. The event Code of Conduct committee may (but is not required to) ask for advice from the TODO. The Gradesta Code of Conduct work group (TODO) can be reached by emailing goodnight@gradesta.com .

Gradesta Online Spaces
--------------------

This Code of Conduct applies to the following online spaces:


  - Code repositories, issue trackers, and pull requests made against any Python Software Foundation controlled GitHub organization
  - Any other online space administered by Gradesta s.r.o. for the gradesta open source project

This Code of Conduct applies to the following people in official Python Software Foundation online spaces:

 -  admins of the online space
 -  maintainers
 -  reviewers
 -  contributors
 -  all community members

Each online space listed above is required to provide the following information to the Gradesta s.r.o. Code of Conduct TODO group:

 -  contact information for any administrators/moderators

Each online space listed above is encouraged to provide the following information to community members:

 -  a welcome message with a link to this Code of Conduct and the contact information for making an incident report goodnight@gradesta.com

The Gradesta Code of Conduct TODO group will receive and evaluate incident reports from the online communities listed above. The Gradesta Code of Conduct work group will work with online community administrators/moderators to suggest actions to take in response to a report. In cases where the administrators/moderators disagree on the suggested resolution for a report, the Gradesta s.r.o. Code of Conduct TODO group may choose to notify the TODO board.

Contact Information
-----------------------

If you believe that someone is violating the code of conduct, or have any other concerns, please contact a member of the Gradesta Code of Conduct TODO group immediately. They can be reached by emailing goodnight@gradesta.com 

Procedure for Handling Incidents
---------------------------------------

TODO

License
--------

This Code of Conduct is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).

Attributions
--------------

This is an adaption of the [Python Software Foundation Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/conduct/). Further attributions may be found there.

Commit message:

Ban claustraphobia inducing body langauge in COC

CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md, after:

Code of Conduct
===================

This code of conduct is derived from and very similar to the [Python Community Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/conduct/) and we believe in spirit essentially identical.

The Gradesta Open Source community hopes to be made up of members from around the globe with a diverse set of skills, personalities, and experiences. It is through these differences that our community hopes to experience great successes and continued growth. When you're working with members of the community, this Code of Conduct will help steer your interactions and keep the Gradesta Open Source community a positive, successful, and growing community.

Our Community
----------------

We hope that members of the Gradesta Open Source community will be _welcoming_, _considerate_, and _respectful_. Behaviours that reinforce these values contribute to a positive environment, and include:

 - Being open. Members of the community are open to collaboration, whether it's on proposals, patches, problems, or otherwise.
 - Focusing on what is best for the community. We're respectful of the processes set forth in the community, and we work within them.
 - Acknowledging time and effort. We're respectful of the volunteer efforts that permeate the Gradesta Open Source community. We're thoughtful when addressing the efforts of others, keeping in mind that often times the labor was completed simply for the good of the community.
 - Being respectful of differing viewpoints and experiences. We're receptive to constructive comments and criticism, as the experiences and skill sets of other members contribute to the whole of our efforts.
 - Showing empathy towards other community members. We're attentive in our communications, whether in person or online, and we're tactful when approaching differing views.
 - Being considerate. Members of the community are considerate of their peers -- other Gradesta users.
 - Being respectful. We're respectful of others, their positions, their skills, their commitments, and their efforts.
 - Gracefully accepting constructive criticism. When we disagree, we are courteous in raising our issues.
 - Using welcoming and inclusive language. We're accepting of all who wish to take part in our activities, fostering an environment where anyone can participate and everyone can make a difference.

Our Standards
----------------

The Gradesta Open Source community is dedicated to providing a positive experience as many people as possible, regardless of:
 - _Biology_: including age, genetics (race, sex), sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, health(including body size and mental health)
 - _Origin_: ethnicity, nationality, socio-economic status
 - And to the extent that they are not in conflict with the above: Identity and belief including religion or lack their of, political views, and gender identity.

Inappropriate Behavior
---------------------------

Examples of unacceptable behavior by participants include:

 - Harassment of any participants in any form
 - Deliberate intimidation, stalking, or following
 - Logging or taking screenshots of online activity for harassment purposes
 - Publishing others' private information, such as a physical or electronic address, without explicit permission
 - Violent threats or language directed against another person
 - Incitement of violence or harassment towards any individual, including encouraging a person to commit suicide or to engage in self-harm
 - Creating additional online accounts in order to harass another person or circumvent a ban
 - Irrelevant sexual language and imagery in online communities or in any conference venue, including talks 
 - Insults, put downs, or jokes that are based upon stereotypes, that are exclusionary, or that hold others up for ridicule
 - Excessive swearing
 - Unwelcome sexual attention or advances: TODO make this more clear which advances are welcome and which are unwelcome for those who have trouble figuring that out on their own.
 - Unwelcome physical contact, including simulated physical contact (eg, textual descriptions like "hug" or "backrub") without consent or after a request to stop
 - Pattern of inappropriate social contact, such as requesting/assuming inappropriate levels of intimacy with others
 - Sustained disruption of online community discussions, in-person presentations, or other in-person events
 - Continued one-on-one communication after requests to cease
 - Claustrophobia inducing body language such as repeated walking towards someone who is stepping backwards to maintain space, leaning over someone who is sitting or placing your hand on the back of their chair in such a way that they cannot easily leave their seat, if standing near a wall placing your hand on the wall above the head or shoulder of the person who is closer to the wall. 
 - Other conduct that is inappropriate for a professional audience including people of many different backgrounds

Community members asked to stop any inappropriate behavior are expected to comply immediately.

Weapons Policy
-----------------

No weapons are allowed at Gradesta events. Weapons include but are not limited to explosives (including fireworks), guns, and large knives such as those used for hunting or display, as well as any other item used for the purpose of causing injury or harm to others. Anyone seen in possession of one of these items will be asked to leave immediately, and will only be allowed to return without the weapon.

Consequences
--------------

If a participant engages in behavior that violates this code of conduct, Gradesta staff (TODO: we're too small to do the right thing here) may take any action they deem appropriate, including warning the offender or expulsion from the community and community events with no refund of event tickets. The full list of consequences for inappropriate behavior is TODO TODO.

Thank you for helping make this a welcoming, friendly community for everyone.

Scope
------

Gradesta s.r.o. Events

This Code of Conduct applies to the following people at events hosted by Gradesta s.r.o., and events hosted by projects endorsed by Gradesta:

 -  staff
 -  speakers
 -  panelists
 -  tutorial or workshop leaders
 -  poster presenters
 -  people invited to meetings or summits
 -  exhibitors
 -  organizers
 -  volunteers
 -  all attendees

The Code of Conduct applies in official venue event spaces, including:

 -  exhibit hall or vendor tabling area
 -  panel and presentation rooms
 -  hackathon or sprint rooms
 -  tutorial or workshop rooms
 -  poster session rooms
 -  summit or meeting rooms
 -  staff areas
 -  con suite
 -  meal areas
 -  party suites
 -  walkways, hallways, elevators, and stairs that connect any of the above spaces

The Code of Conduct applies to interactions with official event accounts on social media spaces and phone applications, including:

  - comments made on official conference phone apps
  - comments made on event video hosting services
  - comments made on the official event hashtag or panel hashtags

Event organizers will enforce this code throughout the event. Each event is required to provide a Code of Conduct committee that receives, evaluates, and acts on incident reports. Each event is required to provide contact information for the committee to attendees. The event Code of Conduct committee may (but is not required to) ask for advice from the TODO. The Gradesta Code of Conduct work group (TODO) can be reached by emailing goodnight@gradesta.com .

Gradesta Online Spaces
--------------------

This Code of Conduct applies to the following online spaces:


  - Code repositories, issue trackers, and pull requests made against any Python Software Foundation controlled GitHub organization
  - Any other online space administered by Gradesta s.r.o. for the gradesta open source project

This Code of Conduct applies to the following people in official Python Software Foundation online spaces:

 -  admins of the online space
 -  maintainers
 -  reviewers
 -  contributors
 -  all community members

Each online space listed above is required to provide the following information to the Gradesta s.r.o. Code of Conduct TODO group:

 -  contact information for any administrators/moderators

Each online space listed above is encouraged to provide the following information to community members:

 -  a welcome message with a link to this Code of Conduct and the contact information for making an incident report goodnight@gradesta.com

The Gradesta Code of Conduct TODO group will receive and evaluate incident reports from the online communities listed above. The Gradesta Code of Conduct work group will work with online community administrators/moderators to suggest actions to take in response to a report. In cases where the administrators/moderators disagree on the suggested resolution for a report, the Gradesta s.r.o. Code of Conduct TODO group may choose to notify the TODO board.

Contact Information
-----------------------

If you believe that someone is violating the code of conduct, or have any other concerns, please contact a member of the Gradesta Code of Conduct TODO group immediately. They can be reached by emailing goodnight@gradesta.com 

Procedure for Handling Incidents
---------------------------------------

TODO

License
--------

This Code of Conduct is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).

Attributions
--------------

This is an adaption of the [Python Software Foundation Code of Conduct](https://www.python.org/psf/conduct/). Further attributions may be found there.
