SOLVE_THESE_PROBLEMS.md, before:

Please solve these Problems - Public tenders for my private company
------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Lately I've been listening to talks on the [MicroConf](https://www.youtube.com/c/MicroConf) channel and one thing that has saddened me is how much time some people spend on B2B marketing and sales. When we create products, we should be spending our time solving problems, not selling our solutions. But somehow things have gotten twisted. The producers of MicroConf also keep repeating that pricing is the most important underused lever in SAAS ARR growth. According to the [Efficient Market Hypothesis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Efficient-market_hypothesis) [1] pricing shouldn't even really be a thing. Prices should be determined by the market and pricing should become perfected, quickly, by market forces. But the Efficient Market Hypothesis is based on the idea that those buying a service have access to information about the market. Objective information. In our SEO drenched world, objective market information is more or less impossible to find.

I often find myself wasting hours on end, searching for information about available software products. And software companies are wasting hours on end, and no small amount of money, trying to reach me. It's a bit of a tragedy. So I've decided to try something different. Rather than searching on Google, through mountains of blog spam for the solutions I need, I'll just list them here and let people with solutions come to me. You can think of this as a bit like the public tenders now mandated by EU law for government contracts. Except I'm running a small business, not a country.

You can find a list of my problems (things I'd pay for), in the ["SOLVExTHESExPROBLEMS"](./SOLVExTHESExPROBLEMS) directory.

If you have a solution to one of my problems, please create a PR.

If I find that I'm getting a lot of SPAM PRs, I'll begin to sell cryptographic stamps, and you'll have to put a stamp on your PR before sending it in (otherwise it'll be closed automatically by a bot). You'd still be able to SPAM me, but at least I'd earn money off of it. For those who aren't spammers, sorry, but if you're going to have a high KAK you might as well pay that money to your potential customers and not to some random rent seeker.

Finding other people's problems
--------------------------------------

GitHub lets you search by filename, so you can find all of the problems on github by searching for [SOLVExTHESExPROBLEMS/](https://github.com/search?q=filename%3A%22SOLVExTHESExPROBLEMS%2F%22). The `x`es are there because [GitHub does not support exact string search](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/26433561/how-to-search-on-github-to-get-exact-string-matches-including-special-character).

[1] The idea that pricing is anything but a random game of psychology is obviously false for all non-commodity products. The buyer side idea here is to create markets and turn products into commodities. The question is, whether

Commit message:

Make note about middle men

SOLVE_THESE_PROBLEMS.md, after:

Please solve these Problems - Public tenders for my private company
------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Lately I've been listening to talks on the [MicroConf](https://www.youtube.com/c/MicroConf) channel and one thing that has saddened me is how much time some people spend on B2B marketing and sales. When we create products, we should be spending our time solving problems, not selling our solutions. But somehow things have gotten twisted. The producers of MicroConf also keep repeating that pricing is the most important underused lever in SAAS ARR growth. According to the [Efficient Market Hypothesis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Efficient-market_hypothesis) [1] pricing shouldn't even really be a thing. Prices should be determined by the market and pricing should become perfected, quickly, by market forces. But the Efficient Market Hypothesis is based on the idea that those buying a service have access to information about the market. Objective information. In our SEO drenched world, objective market information is more or less impossible to find.

I often find myself wasting hours on end, searching for information about available software products. And software companies are wasting hours on end, and no small amount of money, trying to reach me. It's a bit of a tragedy. So I've decided to try something different. Rather than searching on Google, through mountains of blog spam for the solutions I need, I'll just list them here and let people with solutions come to me. You can think of this as a bit like the public tenders now mandated by EU law for government contracts. Except I'm running a small business, not a country.

You can find a list of my problems (things I'd pay for), in the ["SOLVExTHESExPROBLEMS"](./SOLVExTHESExPROBLEMS) directory.

If you have a solution to one of my problems, please create a PR.

If I find that I'm getting a lot of SPAM PRs, I'll begin to sell cryptographic stamps, and you'll have to put a stamp on your PR before sending it in (otherwise it'll be closed automatically by a bot). You'd still be able to SPAM me, but at least I'd earn money off of it. For those who aren't spammers, sorry, but if you're going to have a high KAK you might as well pay that money to your potential customers and not to some random rent seeker.

Finding other people's problems
--------------------------------------

There are [already companies](https://www.trackerintelligence.com/resources/procurement-news/how-do-i-find-private-sector-tenders/) that exist for the sole purpose of finding private sector public tenders. There are also companies who manage private sector public tenders [while taking a commission](https://www.nejremeslnici.cz/). But why don't you cut out the middle-man.

GitHub lets you search by filename, so you can find all of the problems on github by searching for [SOLVExTHESExPROBLEMS/](https://github.com/search?q=filename%3A%22SOLVExTHESExPROBLEMS%2F%22). The `x`es are there because [GitHub does not support exact string search](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/26433561/how-to-search-on-github-to-get-exact-string-matches-including-special-character).

Note: I've noticed that files don't show up in github's filename search immediately, perhaps this process can be improved a bit.

[1] The idea that pricing is anything but a game of psychology is obviously false for all non-commodity products. The buyer side idea here is to create markets and turn products into commodities. The question is, whether suppliers will engage with those who publish public tenders, or if they will continue to try to cold call at random instead.
