---
title: "Setting up CI"
date: 2022-09-18
featureimage: https://assets.gradesta.com/gradesta/img/dalle2-clock-and-coins.png
author: timothy hobbs <tim@gradesta.com>
draft: true
---

part 1: Deciding which CI format to use
-----------------------------------------------

Over the past couple of years I've had to learn 3 different CI config formats:

- Travis CI
- Circle CI
- Gitlab CI

Now I "have to" learn Github actions as well? Why isn't there an industry standard so that I can carry my knowlege with me when moving from one service to the next? It feels like I'm on a treadmill wasting time. So far, I haven't even seen some big advantages from one format to the next which would justify the differences. In this part, I search the web for any universal Open Source standardized format that might exist. Wait, is that what Jenkins is for? I never quite understood what Jenkins was...

{{<screencast "2022-09-18-5230cbd5-b90e-49f6-86e6-a827862e6c43" "afdb8ee2feb8be6db7925837828dc2c0">}}

In the end it seems Jenkins isn't usefull for me because I want to store the configuration in git and not use some fiddly web UI. As far as I can tell, no universal system exists and it is easiest at this time simply to use github actions and learn yet another config format.

Part 2: Run manager tests in CI
-------------------------------------

I setup running the tests in github actions using a nixos Docker image. It turns out that there are multiple ways of running tests on github actions in containers. One way is to set up a `job` that runs in a container. Unfortunately, I was not able to use the git checkout step using this method.  Another way is to create a step in a job that has the `uses:` attrubte set to the name of a docker image. This worked fine. However, the tests did not run successfully. Three tests broke because I was running as root in the container, and one test broke for another unknown reason.

{{<screencast "2022-09-18-9fc4aad5-ea6a-44ef-95f9-726e6a63ef35" "e59db446d76a2ab972abb1bfab616376">}}

In the next part. I will create a new image for running the tests, which will have a proper user configured so that file perimssions tests will work.

Part 3: Setting up a custom Docker image for running CI tests in
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

{{<screencast "2022-10-16-96204831-6289-4287-9448-6b9ef48d6786" "e59db446d76a2ab972abb1bfab616376 8886c40d54bf08d3ef40ae5d7207ebf6">}}

So I set up a custom Docker image:

```
FROM nixos/nix
RUN nix-shell -p busybox --command "adduser test -D -h /github/home"
USER test
```

But it didn't work. NixOS doesn't like it when you don't do things the nix(tm) way. I got an error when I ran nix-shell in the image:

```
nix-shell --command "cd manager ; cargo test"
error: could not set permissions on '/nix/var/nix/profiles/per-user' to 755: Operation not permitted
```

I didn't know what to do. Should I stop using a Dockerfile and do things the nix(tm) way and use `buildLayeredImage` in some sort of ci specific flake? I found [a nice tutorial](https://thewagner.net/blog/2021/02/25/building-container-images-with-nix/) for doing something like that, but I couldn't figure out how do do the very thing I needed: set up a normal user in the container, using `buildLayeredImage`. Indeed, I couldn't find any real documentation at all... 

So I asked on the nixos matrix channel, and got some other suggestions. One was to use the [install-nix-action](https://github.com/cachix/install-nix-action) for github actions. The other was to use [sourcehut's nixos vms](https://man.sr.ht/builds.sr.ht/compatibility.md#nixos). Since I didn't really want to switch to sourcehut at the moment, I decided to go with the first option. I was also pointed to [this tutorial](https://nixos.org/guides/continuous-integration-github-actions.html), which will supposedly help me do just that.

In that guide I learn that it is even possible to cache the results of building the nix environment, which sounds amazing. You need a cachix account to do that though, and I don't want to set one up just yet.

TASK: Setup cachix account and configure caching
TASK_ID: f1bf9f508f8193dcf6baa516c4f11033
CREATED: 2022-10-16 19:49
ESTIMATED_TIME: U1
MILESTONES: fast-ci

Part 4: cargo fmt
---------------------

{{<screencast "2022-10-19-d18025de-89ee-4bfb-a454-b0f141b90485" "c4cea87b7e9a0db374d6679570555e08">}}
