Active Maintainer's License (DRAFT)
---------------------------------

Copyright © <year> <copyright holders>

1. **No warranty:** "THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED “AS IS”, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

2. **Basic rights:** This work may be modified, copied, stored, or archived free of charge indefinitely. This work may be published, transfered to a third party at will. It may also be used for the purpose of developing or improving this work, but for no other purpose except in the cases described below.

3. **Maintaner rights:** The right to use this work may be temprarilly aquired by any person, group of persons or legal entity which acts as an active maintainer of this work. This right lasts for the duration of their status as active maintaner and ends when they cease to be an active maintainer. Active maintainers may also sublicense their right to use this work to third parties and may do so under any terms they deam fit.

4. **Maitaner status:** Status as an active maintaner is assessed on a month by month basis and usage rights apply to the month which follows the assessed month. Active maintanership is acheved via proof of work in the form of audio video recordings of the worker's screen/or other medium used to engage in active maitenence. The products of any work preformed in the course of proving active maintenence as well as the video recordings of that work must be made publicly available, free of charge, on an easilly found web address and under this license, within one month of the work being done.

5. **Maintnance minimums:** The minimum maintenence investment defaults to 4 person hours per month for a work published under this license. Maintaners investing more than 4 hours a month may set a higher minimum which applies to any improvements originating from that maintaner for 7 months after those improvements are published. This minimum may not exceed the number of hours invested by the maintaner in the month proceeding the announcement. Minimums apply to the month that they are announced. Minimums must be announced by the 5th of each month.

6. **Usage rights grandfathering:** If a copy of this work is legally used on a computing device over the course of 12 months the right of use of that copy of the work on that device is grandfathered in. Once the right of use is grandfathered in the work may continue to be used indefinitely on that computing device so long as no changes to the work are made.

7. **Grant of Patent License:** Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.
